Now that we have identified our first data science project that we will
undertake to launch our data science initiative, how do we begin?
I have four steps that I follow when I'm
specifying the details that will make up a data science project.
First, it is imperative to understand
the current state of whatever problem you're trying to solve.
If you are trying to develop a customer segmentation strategy based on data science,
what is currently done by the business in the area of customer segmentation?
What are the strengths of that approach?
What aspects must remain the same?
Where does that approach fall short?
Understanding the current state will help you with the second step,
re-imagining opportunities that come about
when data science is incorporated into the process.
In our segmentation example,
what benefits would a data science-based approach bring?
Is it able to handle greater complexity?
Is it able to scale in ways that the previous process could not?
In this case, we're re-imagining how we execute on
strategic objectives of the company with the help of data science.
At this point, we're ready to put together
the business case for the data science project.
Once we understand opportunities afforded to us through data science,
how can we articulate the benefits of
a data science-based approach and
the additional return on investment that we would get via the data science path?
The business case speaks to the strategic objectives of
the company in a way that's particularly appealing to
leaders and executives who need to consider
the opportunity costs of any potential project.
Finally, when we arrive at the execution phase,
we want to undertake the development of
the data science project using a rapid prototyping approach.
Rapid prototyping is an iterative approach wherein we get user feedback often and do
not allow ourselves to go very far
afield without putting our model in front of potential users.
I have a few examples from early in my career when I
did not adopt a rapid prototyping approach.
The key point involved here is that without regular feedback from users,
the data science project may end up solving a problem other than the one most critical
to users or may include features that are
irrelevant or even counter to the aims of the model.